Add implementation (#1)
syntax-tree/hast-util-from-html-isomorphic: readme.md

Author: This is basically a modified version of the readme from [`hast-util-from-html`](https://github.com/syntax-tree/hast-util-from-html).

# hast-util-from-html-isomorphic

[![Build][build-badge]][build]
[![Coverage][coverage-badge]][coverage]
[![Downloads][downloads-badge]][downloads]
[![Size][size-badge]][size]
[![Sponsors][sponsors-badge]][collective]
[![Backers][backers-badge]][collective]
[![Chat][chat-badge]][chat]

> [hast][] utility that turns HTML into a syntax tree.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[hast][] utility that turns HTML into a syntax tree, using browser APIs
when available, so it has a smaller bundle size there.
```

Something like this to mention the main difference?

## Contents

*   [What is this?](#what-is-this)
*   [When should I use this?](#when-should-i-use-this)
*   [Install](#install)
*   [Use](#use)
*   [API](#api)
    *   [`fromHtml(value[, options])`](#fromhtmlvalue-options)
    *   [`Options`](#options)
*   [Examples](#examples)
    *   [Example: fragment versus document](#example-fragment-versus-document)
*   [Syntax](#syntax)
*   [Types](#types)
*   [Compatibility](#compatibility)
*   [Security](#security)
*   [Related](#related)
*   [Contribute](#contribute)
*   [License](#license)

## What is this?

This package is a utility that takes HTML input and turns it into a hast syntax
tree.

> When running in a browser, this uses [`hast-util-from-dom`][hast-util-from-dom],
> otherwise this uses [`hast-util-from-html`][hast-util-from-html].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a browser, this uses [`hast-util-from-dom`][hast-util-from-dom],
otherwise it uses [`hast-util-from-html`][hast-util-from-html].
```

## When should I use this?

If you want to handle syntax trees manually in isomorphic code and care about

> bundle size, use this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to get a syntax tree without positional info, and your code should
be isomorphic (it could run anywhere), as it results in a smaller bundle size.
```

If you want to use positional information, use

> [`hast-util-from-html`][hast-util-from-html].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need positional information, use
[`hast-util-from-html`][hast-util-from-html].
```

> If you don’t care about positional information, and your code will only run in
> the browser, use [`hast-util-from-dom`][hast-util-from-dom].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don’t care about positional info and your code only runs in browsers,
use [`hast-util-from-dom`][hast-util-from-dom].
```

Finally you can use the utility [`hast-util-to-html`][hast-util-to-html] to do
the inverse of this utility.

> It turns hast into HTML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally you can use the utility [`hast-util-to-html`][hast-util-to-html],
or [`hast-util-to-dom`][hast-util-to-dom] with `.outerHTML`, to do the inverse
of this utility.
That turns hast into HTML.
```

I guess we could also make a `toHtmlIsomorphic`?

Author: I guess we could, but I personally haven’t run into any use cases yet.

## Install

This package is [ESM only][esm].

> In Node.js (version 14.14+ and 16.0+), install with [npm][]:

Reviewer: We can start at Node 16+, as that’s only a month away?

Author: ```suggestion
In Node.js (version 16.0+), install with [npm][]:
```

```sh
npm install hast-util-from-html-isomorphic
```

In Deno with [`esm.sh`][esmsh]:

```js
import {fromHtml} from "https://esm.sh/hast-util-from-html-isomorphic@1"
```

In browsers with [`esm.sh`][esmsh]:

```html
<script type="module">
  import {fromHtml} from "https://esm.sh/hast-util-from-html-isomorphic@1?bundle"
</script>
```

## Use

```js
import {fromHtml} from 'hast-util-from-html-isomorphic'

const tree = fromHtml('<h1>Hello, world!</h1>', {fragment: true})

console.log(tree)
```

Yields (positional info and data omitted for brevity):

```js
{
  type: 'root',
  children: [
    {
      type: 'element',
      tagName: 'h1',
      properties: {},
      children: [Array],

>       position: [Object]

Reviewer: I don’t think this should be there

Author: ```suggestion
```

    }
  ]
}
```

## API

This package exports the identifier [`fromHtml`][fromhtml].
There is no default export.

### `fromHtml(value[, options])`

Turn serialized HTML into a hast tree.

###### Parameters

> <!-- To do: update link when `vfile` has new docs. -->

Reviewer: new docs exist! `https://github.com/vfile/vfile#compatible`

*   `value` ([`Compatible`][compatible])
    — serialized HTML to parse
*   `options` ([`Options`][options], optional)
    — configuration

###### Returns

Tree ([`Root`][root]).

### `Options`

Configuration (TypeScript type).

##### Fields

> ###### `options.fragment`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###### `fragment`
```

(probably a typo on my part in the reference project)

### Example: fragment versus document

The following example shows the difference between parsing as a document and
parsing as a fragment:

```js
import {fromHtml} from 'hast-util-from-html-isomorphic'

const doc = '<title>Hi!</title><h1>Hello!</h1>'

console.log(fromHtml(doc))

console.log(fromHtml(doc, {fragment: true}))
```

…yields (positional info and data omitted for brevity):

```js
{
  type: 'root',
  children: [
    {type: 'element', tagName: 'html', properties: {}, children: [Array]}
  ]
}
```

```js
{
  type: 'root',
  children: [
    {type: 'element', tagName: 'title', properties: {}, children: [Array]},
    {type: 'element', tagName: 'h1', properties: {}, children: [Array]}
  ]
}
```

> 👉 **Note**: observe that when a whole document is expected (first example),
> missing elements are opened and closed.

## Syntax

HTML is parsed according to WHATWG HTML (the living standard), which is also
followed by browsers such as Chrome and Firefox.

## Types

This package is fully typed with [TypeScript][].
It exports the additional type [`Options`][options].

## Compatibility

Projects maintained by the unified collective are compatible with all maintained
versions of Node.js.

> As of now, that is Node.js 14.14+ and 16.0+.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of now, that is Node.js 16.0+.
```

Same as above, start at Node 16?

the inverse of this utility.
It turns hast into HTML.

## Install

This package is [ESM only][esm].
In Node.js (version 14.14+ and 16.0+), install with [npm][]:

```sh
npm install hast-util-from-html-isomorphic
```

In Deno with [`esm.sh`][esmsh]:

```js
import {fromHtmlIsomorphic} from "https://esm.sh/hast-util-from-html-isomorphic@1"
```

In browsers with [`esm.sh`][esmsh]:

```html
<script type="module">
  import {fromHtmlIsomorphic} from "https://esm.sh/hast-util-from-html-isomorphic@1?bundle"
</script>
```

## Use

```js
import {fromHtmlIsomorphic} from 'hast-util-from-html-isomorphic'

const tree = fromHtmlIsomorphic('<h1>Hello, world!</h1>', {fragment: true})

console.log(tree)
```

Yields (positional info and data omitted for brevity):

```js
{
  type: 'root',
  children: [
    {
      type: 'element',
      tagName: 'h1',
      properties: {},
      children: [Array],
      position: [Object]
    }
  ]
}
```

## API

This package exports the identifier [`fromHtmlIsomorphic`][fromhtmlisomorphic].
There is no default export.

### `fromHtmlIsomorphic(value[, options])`

Turn serialized HTML into a hast tree.

###### Parameters

> 
> <!-- To do: update link when `vfile` has new docs. -->

Author: ```suggestion
```
